Patch notes
----
<!-- * 2017/10/18 - v1.0 *got you covered*  -->
* 2017/11/24 - v0.4.2
  * `slice.tree` can now slice through a single edge.
  * Various small speed improvements.
  * Correct behaviour in `tree.age` to estimate correct ages for trees with fossils only.
  * *New* utility function: `crown.stem` for separating a tree into crown and stem groups.
  * *New* disparity metric: `span.tree.length` the length of the minimum spanning tree.
  * *New* disparity metric: `pairwise.dist`: the element's pairwise distances.
  * *New* disparity metric: `radius`: the radius of each dimensions.
  * *New* disparity metric: `n.ball.volume`: the *n*-dimensional sphere or ellipsoid volume.
  * **Change name** throughout the package, `subsample` is now replaced by `subset` (e.g. `time.subsamples` is now renamed `time.subsets`, `data$subsamples` is now `data$subsets`, etc...)
  * **Changed argument** in `time.subsets`, `model = "gradual"` is now replaced by `model = "proximity"` and `model = "punctuated"` is now replaced by `model = "random"`.
  * **New argument** in `time.subsets`, `model = "punctuated"` and `model = "gradual"` that retain the probability of being either the descendant or the ancestor. This probability is passed to `boot.matrix` .
* 2017/11/13 - v0.4.1
  * *New* disparity metric: `ancestral.distance` to get the distance from taxa/nodes to their ancestors.
  * *New* function: `random.circle` for generating random circle coordinates (see example in `space.maker` for creating doughnut spaces!).
  * *New* function: `get.bin.ages` for getting the geological timescale of a tree (based on `geoscale`).
  * Added a `t0` argument to `time.subsamples` allowing to set the start age of the first subsample.
  * Allowing subsamples to contain less than three elements (up to 0!).
  * Fixed fuzzy match issues in `slice.tree`.
* 2017/08/21 - v0.4.0 *user friendly*
  * Entirely rewritten manual (in GitBook)!
  * **Removed** `hyper.volume` metric for dependencies reasons
  * **Removed** `parallel` option from `boot.matrix` (the new architecture is already super fast: <2sec for 5k taxa and 10k bootstraps!)
  * *New* function: `Claddis.ordination` and `geomorph.ordination` for automatically ordinating data from `Claddis` and `geomorph` packages!
  * *New* function: `char.diff` for calculating character differences and associated plot function (`plot.char.diff`)
  * *New* utility function: `merge.subsamples` for... merging subsamples!
  * *New* utility function: `size.subsamples` for... getting the size of subsamples in a disparity object!
  * *New* wrapping functions: `dispRity.through.time` and `dispRity.per.group` now runs easy default disparity analysis.
  * Input ordinated matrices do not need to be of maximum size `n*(n-1)`. Bigger matrices now only trigger a warning.
  * **Changed name**: `series` as a part of `dispRity` objects is now changed to `subsamples` throughout the whole package.
  * **Changed name**: `time.series` is now renamed `time.subsamples`, if dates are provided and method is `discrete`, this function doesn't need a phylogeny any more.
  * **Changed name**: `get.subsamples.dispRity` is now renamed `get.subsamples`.
  * **Modified function**: `cust.series` is now renamed `custom.subsamples` (to avoid confusion with `custard.subsamples`!). Its `factor` argument as been changed to `groups` and can now take a simple list.
  * Added `dimensions` optional argument to `dispRity` to overwrite the number of dimensions generated by `boot.matrix`.
  * `variances`, `ranges` and `centroids` are now simplified for speed. The optional arguments for data cleaning are now passed to `make.metric`.
  * `space.maker` now allows to approximate the dimensions variance distribution with the `scree` option.
* 2017/01/25 - v0.3.0 *dispRity lite*
  * Complete change of the `dispRity` object architecture (see more [here](https://github.com/TGuillerme/dispRity/blob/master/disparity_object.md)).
  * `dispRity` object utilities are now all grouped under the `?dispRity.utilities`	manual with appropriate S3 methods.
  * **Removed** `rm.last.axis` argument in `boot.matrix`. It is now replaced by `dimensions`.
  * **Changed argument** in `plot.dispRity`, `type = "lines"` is now replaced by `type = "line"`.
  * `sim.morpho` can now use `model = "mixed"` for using both `HKY-binary` and `Mk` in characters simulation.
* 2016/11/07 - v0.2.1 - *making stuff up*
  * *New* utility function: `merge.time.series` for cleaning or merging time series
  * *New* vignette: `dispRity-simulate_data` on how to simulate morphological characters in `dispRity`
  * *New* function: `sim.morpho` generates morphological matrices 
  * *New* function: `check.morpho` for checking how "realistic" the simulate morphological matrices are
  * *New* utility functions: `get.contrast.matrix` and `apply.inapplicable` functions for morphological matrices
  * Minor graphical functions updates
* 2016/06/15 - v0.2.0
  * *New* utility functions: `pair.plot`, `scale.dispRity` and `sort.dispRity`.
  * *New* function: `space.maker` for creating some multidimensional spaces!
  * *New* disparity metrics: `convhull.surface`, `convhull.volume` and `hyper.volume`
  * *New* disparity test `null.test`.
  * *New* `plot.dispRity` arguments: `density` for controlling the polygons density and `add` for adding plots.
  * **Removed** `type_discrete` argument in `plot.dispRity` and `type` argument can now be:
  	* `continuous` disparity curves.
  	* `box` for real boxplots.
  	* `lines` for the distribution verticale lines.
  	* `polygon` for the distribution boxes.
  * Minor functions corrections for specific optional arguments combinations.
  * Many updates to the functions manual and vignettes.
  * Some algorithm are now improved for speed
  * Disparity can now be calculated as a distribution (i.e. `dispRity`, `test.dispRity`, `plot.dispRity`, and `summary.dispRity` can now intake one or more distribution rather than just one or more single values of disparity; whether the data is bootstrapped or not).
  * `dispRity` can now intake `dispRity` objects with level 2 disparity metrics.
  * `boot.matrix` and `dispRity` can now run in parallel.
  * `centroids` disparity metric can now intake a `centroid` argument for fixing the centroid point value.
  * `variances` and `ranges` disparity metrics can now intake a `k.root` argument for scaling the results.
* 2015/12/01 - v0.1.2
  * *New* function: `get.dispRity` for subsampling dispRity objects
  * *New* function: `extract.dispRity` for extracting disparity results
  * *New* function: `test.dispRity` for applying tests to `dispRity` objects
  * *New* function: `make.metric` for helping creating your very own disparity metric
  * *New* metric: `hyper.volume` for measuring the morphospace hyper-ellipsoid volume
  * `metric` argument from `dispRity` can now intake up two three functions (see `dispRity.metric` and `make.metric`)
  * Many improved functions manuals and examples!
  * Improved vignettes:
    * *dispRity palaeo demo* a quick demo aimed more for palaeobiologist
    * *dispRity ecology demo* a quick demo aimed more for ecologists
    * *dispRity manual* for people that want to know the package in details
    * *dispRity metrics* for explaining how the disparity metric implementation works
* 2015/10/08 - v0.1.1
  * Fixed many error/warning messages
  * `plot.dispRity` options improved (rarefaction + default)
  * `cust.series` can now intake multiple factors columns
  * Added example for ecological data
  * Changed `taxa` to `elements`
  * `boot.matrix`, `dispRity`, `summary` and `plot` now also include observed values
  * `plot` now has an `observed` option to plot the observed disparity
  * `plot` option `diversity` has been renamed `elements`
* 2015/10/01 - **v0.1.0**
  * First release!
